---
title: About
layout: about
permalink: /about.html
# Edit the markdown on in this file to describe your collection
# Look in _includes/feature for options to easily add features to the page
---

{% include feature/jumbotron.html %}

{% include feature/nav-menu.html sections="Note on Positionality;Note on Terminology;Acknowledgements" %}

## Curator's Note

I first began curating this exhibition in the autumn of 2020, almost exactly three years after my first exhibition of photographs from the Uno Langmann collection. At that time, I was struck by how many items in the collection contained scenes of British Columbia that were familiar to me, even though most of them had been taken nearly a century before I was born, and my curatorial concept for that first exhibition, which I wrote about here, centered on the unchanging nature of architecture, gathering spaces, and natural landscapes across time.<br>
When I dove back into the Uno Langmann collection this time, something quite different stood out to me. Although most of the images in the collection were taken approximately one hundred years ago, a mere blink of an eye on a historical scale, it seemed to me that many of the photographs were relics of their time, in the sense that they showcased scenes and themes with apparent pride that we today might see with a more critical eye.<br>
An important note about the photographs in this exhibition is that, we cannot be certain of the photographers’ intentions. Within the text of the exhibition, I take the liberty of hypothesizing about the purpose of the photographs – why someone at that time would have wanted to document wide swaths of forest that have been logged, or animals that have been killed for sport, or parades marching through downtown Vancouver. Without being certain of the reasons why these photographs may have been captured, these hypotheses are simply meant to express my own interpretation of the photographs, as I parsed through each and every one at the beginning of my curatorial process. I couldn’t help but witness the images through a lens that more critically examines the issues that so many of us care about today: the environment, the fact that we live on stolen lands, what it means to live in a post-industrial world.<br>
The closer I looked at the collection, the more I seemed to find images that fell into one of those three categories. The knowledge of how these lands were stolen and the peoples indigenous to these lands brutally oppressed became the backdrop to how I viewed the entire collection and the exhibition. Images of trees being cut down and smokestacks being raised were not celebrations of burgeoning industry in a young province; they were examples of the destruction of the natural environment. Images of new buildings downtown and the creation of Stanley Park were not examples of progress towards modernization; they were examples of settlers confidently making grand plans for lands that did not and do not belong to them. Some of the images, no matter what their original purpose may have been, became visual evidence of a flagrant disrespect and disregard for Indigenous peoples.<br>
In that sense, the photographers’ intentions in taking the photographs become moot. The purpose of the exhibition is not to uncover the original purpose behind the photographs, but to examine what the photographs can tell us – intentionally or unintentionally, consciously or subconsciously – about the ethos of the time, and how much or how little settlers considered issues like environmentalism, industrialism, and Indigenous peoples’ rights. What is in the photographs, and what is absent from the photographs, is in that sense equally important.<br>
One of the strengths of historical photographs – and indeed, history in general – is that it can cause us to think more critically about our role in it. How have our pasts shaped us? How will we shape the future? I hope this exhibition encourages us, particularly those of us living on stolen lands, to think more critically about our own roles in the narratives presented here: our relationships to the environment, our relationships to urban development, and our relationships to and with Indigenous peoples. I hope we can more clearly see what’s there, as well as what may be missing.


## Note on Positionality

This exhibition was curated by Ashlynn Prasad, an Archives and Reference Assistant at UBC’s Rare Books and Special Collections. Ashlynn is a settler of South Asian heritage whose ancestors originally came from India and were brought to Fiji as indentured labourers of the British Empire in the late 1800s. Her parents moved from Fiji to Blackfoot land and then Cree land in what is now known as Edmonton, Alberta, before she was born.<br><br>
Ashlynn was privileged to be born on and grow up on Coast Salish territory in what is now known as Surrey, British Columbia, before relocating to the traditional lands of the Tongva nation in what is now known as Southern California, and then later to Amah Mutsun territories in what is now known as Santa Cruz, California.<sup>1</sup> She returned to the Lower Mainland to complete graduate work at the University of British Columbia and was lucky to live, work, and study on the traditional, ancestral, and unceded territories of the hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓ speaking Musqueam peoples. While curating this exhibition, the University of British Columbia was closed due to COVID-19, and she worked remotely while living on the ancestral and unceded homelands of the hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓ and Sḵwx̱wú7mesh speaking peoples.<sup>2</sup><br><br>
Rare Books and Special Collections, which houses the Uno Langmann Family Collection of B.C. Photographs, is located on UBC’s Vancouver campus, on the traditional, ancestral, and unceded territories of the hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓ speaking Musqueam peoples.


## Note on Terminology

This exhibition was created in the autumn of 2020 using as a reference point the Indigenous Peoples: Language Guidelines Version 2.0 created by the University of British Columbia in 2018.<sup>3</sup>  We have used the guidelines outlined in this document to attempt to describe Indigenous peoples, lands, and languages as accurately and respectfully as we can, while realizing that best practices for terminology are subject to change as time passes, and that this exhibition may itself be a relic of its time – complete with out-of-date, incorrect terminology – in the future.<br><br>
This exhibition uses the term Indigenous in the same way in which Daniel Heath Justice so eloquently describes in his book, Why Indigenous Literatures Matter: to “refer specifically to the First Peoples of North America, the Aboriginal, American Indian, Native, Inuit, Metis, and otherwise identified peoples who remain in relation to the land, the ancestors, and the kinship networks, lifeways, and languages, that originated in this hemisphere and continue in often besieged but always resilient forms.”<sup>4</sup>  Justice’s discussion of the term “settler” has also informed the use of that term in this exhibition, specifically that it is important to use “settler colonialism” when describing the history of this particular region, as distinguished from “the more traditional ideas of colonialism (wherein invaders claim resources but return home) by emphasizing the settler population’s creation of a new social order that depends in part on the ongoing oppression and displacement of Indigenous peoples.”<sup>5</sup><br><br>
Several points in this exhibition describe settlers as a whole with a rather broad brush, and while it may be outside the scope of this exhibition, it is important to note that a more nuanced and thorough conversation should be had about all the various groups of people that fall under the broad category of “settler.” Justice’s eloquence again does justice to this complexity:<br>
<p style="margin-left:10%; margin-right:10%;">“regardless of reason, and whether willing resource raiders or unwilling victims of other peoples’ ambitions, and whether intentionally or inadvertently, these groups very often displaced Indigenous peoples, and in many cases, laid claim to the land and took its resources for their own. Sometimes they did it with enthusiasm, sometimes they were forced to do it, sometimes they were reluctant but went along anyway, and sometimes they didn’t realize that their actions were uprooting others or that they had benefited from early dispossessions…. No matter what the reasons were or are, the results have generally [been] the same for the People: displacement and alienation from lands and relation.”</p><br><br>
The significance of this conversation is that, when we speak in general terms about the history of settler colonization in this region, we can tend to oversimplify the term settler so that we envision only white European settlers of malicious intent, and their direct descendants. In reality, the term settler can apply to a much broader swath of people. As the curator of this exhibition, my family has also been unmoored by colonization and sent adrift across the planet. This does not absolve me from the responsibility to learn about and think about the histories of Indigenous peoples on these lands – if anything, I feel it gives me more reason to do so – and I hope that this exhibition may encourage other settlers to acknowledge and understand their own positionality in this history, regardless of the path by which they came to arrive on these lands, regardless of any camaraderie that may have existed between their communities and Indigenous communities.<br><br>
Both myself, the curator of this exhibition, and Krisztina Laszlo, the project manager, are settlers on Indigenous lands in British Columbia. As such, we would like to acknowledge our biases and draw attention to the fact that there are things we cannot and will not ever understand about the experiences of Indigenous peoples in Canada. Given the limitations of our perspectives, even our best intentions and most thorough research may sometimes result in a final product that is in some way tone-deaf or culturally insensitive. Because of this, we invite and encourage any viewers of this exhibition to contact us directly at ashlynn.prasad@ubc.ca or krisztina.laszlo@ubc.ca if any part of this exhibition strikes you as inappropriate, offensive, out of date, or in need of adjustment in any way. We are committed to making any necessary changes to improve the cultural sensitivity and accuracy of this exhibition.


## Acknowledgements

Many thanks go to the Uno Langmann Family for donating the collection of photographs from which this exhibition was born.<br>
This exhibition would not have been possible without the efforts of Eka Grguric, Digital Scholarship Librarian at UBC, who provided near-constant troubleshooting and guidance during the process of building the website.<br>
Thanks to Krisztina Laszlo for managing the project and providing editing suggestions and curation guidance throughout.<br>
Thanks to Claire Williams and Karen Ng, who reviewed the text and offered important guidance and suggestions.<br>
Thanks also to Eric Leinberger, who granted permission to use the map he created of indigenous reserves in Vancouver, and to Katie Ferrante at the Museum of Anthropology for granting permission for use of the welcome figure image.<br><br><br>


<small>1. “Map,” Native Land, accessed November 10, 2020, <a href="https://native-land.ca/">https://native-land.ca/</a>.</small><br>
<small>2. “History,” City of Burnaby, accessed November 10, 2020, <a href="https://www.burnaby.ca/About-Burnaby/About/History.html?PageMode=Print">https://www.burnaby.ca/About-Burnaby/About/History.html?PageMode=Print</a>.</small><br>
<small>3. “Indigenous Peoples : Language Guidelines, Version 2.0,” The University of British Columbia, 2018, <a href="https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&ved=2ahUKEwjE68vGqfnsAhULgp4KHXWgCl0QFjAAegQIBBAC&url=https%3A%2F%2Fassets.brand.ubc.ca%2Fdownloads%2Fubc_indigenous_peoples_language_guide.pdf&usg=AOvVaw0v2e6zxNVHH_qqmx9amCXQ">https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&ved=2ahUKEwjE68vGqfnsAhULgp4KHXWgCl0QFjAAegQIBBAC&url=https%3A%2F%2Fassets.brand.ubc.ca%2Fdownloads%2Fubc_indigenous_peoples_language_guide.pdf&usg=AOvVaw0v2e6zxNVHH_qqmx9amCXQ</a>.</small><br>
<small>4. Daniel Heath Justice, Why Indigenous Literatures Matter (Ontario, Canada: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2018), 7.</small><br>
<small>5. Daniel Heath Justice, Why Indigenous Literatures Matter (Ontario, Canada: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2018), 9.</small>
